Flux assessment of SLSA Level 3 requirements (#1530)
fluxcd/website: content/en/flux/security/slsa-assessment.md

---
title: "SLSA Assessment"
linkTitle: "SLSA Assessment"
description: "Flux assessment of SLSA Level 3 requirements."
weight: 140
---

## Introduction

Supply Chain Levels for Software Artifacts, or SLSA (pronounced "salsa"),
is a security framework which aims to prevent tampering and secure artifacts in a project.
SLSA is designed to support automation that tracks code handling from source to binary

> protecting against tampering regardless of the complexity of the software supply chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in order to protect against tampering regardless of the complexity of the software supply chain.
```

  the [SLSA GitHub Generator project](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator).
- The provenance for the release artifacts published to GitHub Container Registry and to DockerHub (Flux controllers
  multi-arch container images) is generated using the `generator_container_slsa3` GitHub Workflow provided by
  the [SLSA GitHub Generator project](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator).

### Build Platform Requirements

#### Provenance generation

| Requirement               | Required at SLSA L3 | Met by Flux |
|---------------------------|---------------------|-------------|
| Provenance Exists         | Yes                 | Yes         |
| Provenance is Authentic   | Yes                 | Yes         |
| Provenance is Unforgeable | Yes                 | Yes         |

> The build process MUST generate provenance that unambiguously identifies the output package by cryptographic digest
> and describes how that package was produced.

- The Flux project release workflows make use of the
  official [SLSA GitHub Generator project](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator) for provenance
  generation.

> - The provenance file stores the SHA-256 hashes of the release artifacts (binaries, SBOMs, deploy manifests, source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The provenance file stores the SHA-256 hash of the release artifacts (binaries, SBOMs, deploy manifests, source
```

Author: It's hashes, because we have multiple assets!

Author: See https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/blob/main/.github/workflows/release.yml#L22

  code).
- The provenance identifies the Flux container images using their digest in SHA-256 format.

> Consumers MUST be able to validate the authenticity of the provenance attestation in order to ensure integrity and
> define trust.

> - The provenance is signed by Sigstore Cosign using the GitHub OIDC identity and the public key to verify the provenance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The provenance is signed using Sigstore Cosign via the GitHub OIDC identity and the public key to verify the provenance
```

Author: It's signed by Cosign

  is stored in the public [Rekor transparency log](https://docs.sigstore.dev/rekor/overview/).
- The release process and the provenance generation runs in isolation on an ephemeral environment provided by
  GitHub-hosted runners.
- The provenance of the Flux release artifacts (binaries, container images, SBOMs, deploy manifests) can be verified
  using the official [SLSA verifier tool](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-verifier).

> Provenance MUST be strongly resistant to forgery by tenants.

- The provenance generation workflows run on ephemeral and isolated virtual machines which are fully managed by GitHub.
- The provenance signing secrets are ephemeral and are generated through
  Sigstore's [keyless signing](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/KEYLESS.md) procedure.

> - The [SLSA GitHub generator](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator) runs on separate virtual machines
>   than the build and release process, so that the Flux build scripts don't have access to the signing secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [SLSA GitHub generator](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator) for an artifact runs on a separate virtual machine
  than the one for the build and release process, so that the Flux build scripts don't have access to the signing secrets.
```

Author: It's machines since we have more than one repo/workflow

Reviewer: yeah that's why i added "for an artifact", but i guess we can keep the original terminology

Author: It's not a single artifact, we don't spinup a VM for every file in the release process, but for all of them.

#### Isolation strength

| Requirement | Required at SLSA L3 | Met by Flux |
|-------------|---------------------|-------------|
| Hosted      | Yes                 | Yes         |
| Isolated    | Yes                 | Yes         |

> All build steps ran using a hosted build platform on shared or dedicated infrastructure.

> - The release process and the provenance generation runs in isolation on an ephemeral environment provided by
>   GitHub-hosted runners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The release process and the provenance generation are run in isolation on an ephemeral environment provided by
  GitHub-hosted runners.
```

> - The provenance generation is decoupled from the build process,
>   the [SLSA GitHub generator](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator) runs on separate virtual machines
>   fully managed by GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The provenance generation for an artifact is decoupled from the build process,
  since the [SLSA GitHub generator](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator) runs on a separate virtual machine
  fully managed by GitHub.
```

Author: I don't think this is OK, it's not one artifact, there are many.
